---
type: rule
title: Do you know why you should have a blog for your company?
uri: do-you-know-why-you-should-have-a-blog-for-your-company
created: 2019-07-08T04:25:26.0000000Z
authors:
- id: 83
  title: Camilla Rosa Silva

---



<span class='intro'> <p style="text-align&#58;justify;">A lot of companies will struggle with one of the main strategies trending at the moment&#58; Content Marketing! One way of delivering good content is through a blog. To convince you that a corporate blog is a must for your business, here are some reasons why you should do it&#58;</p> </span>

<div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><ul><li>Drive traffic to your website</li></ul></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;">Your blog gives you the opportunity to create and share relevant content for your customers. You should use this as part of your marketing tactic to drive traffic to your website. You can make the blog on your website the main source for all of your social media platforms, as a way of sharing longer content. Your business might be on Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, LinkedIn, Instagram or anywhere else. Post links from your blog with consistent visuals on your social media. Give your social followers a reason to access your website by sharing interesting content. Additionally, post inbound links directly in your blog articles, to drive traffic to specific landing pages of your website. It’ll also increase your traffic as you increase the number of backlinks. Backlinks or Inbound links (hyperlinks that go back to your site) are the lifeblood of any website. They’re the currency of the internet because high-quality backlinks, from a variety of sites, give your website a higher rank in search engine results. The more you blog great content, the higher the chances of you getting those inbound links around the web.</div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><br></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><ul><li>Increase your SEO</li></ul></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;">New content is still a key to beat your competitors in the search engine results page, especially if they have relevant keywords. List out the keywords, topics, and categories you want your business to be found with. Use these words, and related expressions when writing your posts – don’t forget to add them to your SEO strategy. Of course, whether you are actively searching for these out or not, blogging regularly about your business, industry, service or product will naturally increase your search ranking for the keywords you are targeting. Being aware of your strategy and keywords will only increase results. <br></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><br></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><ul><li>Blogging is an essential part of a successful social strategy</li></ul></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;">Blogging and social media were once two totally different things. Blogging was where you had to post only well structured, serious content. Social media was where you were less serious. Two different types of content. Now your blog informs your social media posts, and vice-versa, enriching your followers experience with articles, e-books, videos, and other great content. Without a blog to promote excellent content on your social, you're missing a big opportunity to drive high-quality engagement with your audience.</div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><br></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><ul><li>Position your brand as an industry leader and increase brand awareness in the industry</li></ul></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;">Interesting and relevant articles demonstrate your company as an industry leader. When choosing topics, try to think what resonates with your market and show your knowledge, you are marketing your skills for your business, service or product too. If you are a retailer, for example, write blog posts with reviews of your products, or with tips that correlate with them. Your customers will recognize you as a problem solver to their issues. If you are in B2B, you can write about a solution you have developed for a specific client or how your managers have overcome a challenge with their team. Become an expert in your industry by sharing your experience. The more you show the market what great stories you have to share, the more your client will trust you to supply them with what they need. Besides that, they will thank you for the learning experience.</div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><br></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><ul><li>Develop better customer relationships</li></ul></div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;">Blogs provide an extra source to deepen the conversation (and connection) with your customer. By connecting directly on your website, your clients are able to get to know your business, service or product whenever and wherever they are. Build trust by being a reliable source of information. Clients like to be informed and appreciate that you are the one teaching them. Additionally, just as on your other social websites, engage with your audience by responding to comments and interacting with your consumer. If they have questions about a product you are writing about, respond to them directly on your website – don’t leave them waiting. Unlike many social sites, a blog is generally searchable on your site for some time. Your website comments last longer than on a Twitter response or Facebook post. Other customers will see your interactions too, that’s why is important to show that you’re always replying and connecting with your clients as soon as possible.</div><div style="text-align&#58;justify;"><br></div><br>


