---
type: rule
title: SEM - Do you use Microsoft Advertising? (Formerly known as Bing Ads)
uri: sem---do-you-use-microsoft-advertising-formerly-known-as-bing-ads
created: 2019-05-02T03:53:19.0000000Z
authors:
- id: 83
  title: Camilla Rosa Silva
- id: 62
  title: Penny Walker

---



<span class='intro'> Did you know that you can import your Google Ad campaigns directly into Microsoft Advertising?&#160;<br><div><br></div><div>If you already are using Google Ads to advertise on Google, you can import these campaigns into Microsoft Advertising so that you can run the same ads on Bing. This is an easy way to expand your online advertising reach. Microsoft Bing is the second most popular search engine in the world, and you could be missing out on valuable traffic by not utilising their ad platform.&#160;<br></div> </span>

<h3 class="ssw15-rteElement-H3">​Why use Microsoft Audience Ads?<br></h3><p></p><ul><ul><li>More volume<br></li><li>Boost impressions and traffic through brand-safe, native content placements.</li><li>More&#160;clicks<br></li><li>Increase conversions</li><li>Your ads can reach a much larger audience, increasing your chances for conversions.</li><li>Massive reach you can trust with premium, brand-safe placements</li><li>Reach&#160;millions of people on MSN, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Edge and our syndicated partner&#160;sites,&#160;with more to&#160;come.<br></li><li>Boosted performance, powered by artificial intelligence</li><li>AI and machine learning help guide ad selection and relevancy matching, along with pricing, click and conversion prediction to help deliver the best marketing ROI.</li><li>Performance tracking is easy​<br></li><li>Use the same Microsoft Advertising tools, reports and analytics to monitor your campaign performance.​</li></ul></ul><div><h3 class="ssw15-rteElement-H3">Importing from Google Ads<br></h3><p>​Follow these steps to import&#58;<br></p><ol><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;">I</span><span style="color&#58;#333333;">n Microsoft Advertising, click&#160;Import Campaigns, and then click&#160;Import from Google Ads.</span></li><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;">If you have imported from Google Ads in the past 90 days, you will see a table that shows you the&#160;Date/Time&#160;and&#160;Google Ads account&#160;that was imported along with.​</span></li><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;">​Click&#160;Sign in to Google.</span></li><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;">Enter your Google Ads sign-in information, click&#160;<strong>Sign in</strong>.</span></li><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;">Select the Google Ads campaigns you want to import, then click&#160;<strong>Continue</strong>.</span></li><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;">Under&#160;<strong>Choose Import Options</strong>, do the following&#58;</span></li><ul><ul><ul><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;">Choose the</span><span style="color&#58;#333333;"> appropriate options for&#160;<strong>What to import,&#160;Bids and budgets,&#160;Landing page URLs,&#160;Tracking templates,&#160;Ad extensions, and&#160;Microsoft Merchant Centre.</strong></span></li><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;">Choose if you want to delete ad groups and campaigns from Microsoft Advertising that you have already deleted from Google Ads under <strong>Clean-up,</strong> on</span><span style="color&#58;#333333;">ce you remove these campaigns or ad groups, any associated ads or keywords will also be deleted.&#160;</span></li></ul></ul></ul><li>Optional&#58; Under&#160;<strong>Schedule Imports</strong>, click&#160;<strong>When</strong>&#160;and then set the schedule you want, which can be Once, Daily, Weekly, or Monthly.</li><li><span style="background-color&#58;initial;">Click&#160;Import&#160;or if you want to set a schedule, click&#160;<strong>Schedule</strong>.</span></li><li><span style="background-color&#58;initial;">Review the<strong>&#160;Import summary&#160;</strong>to see what entities were newly added or updated, or couldn't be imported (skipped).</span></li><li><span style="background-color&#58;initial;color&#58;#333333;">If you want to review the details of the campaigns and make changes, click&#160;<strong>View imported campaigns.</strong></span></li><li><span style="color&#58;#333333;background-color&#58;initial;">If you want to sync multiple Google Ads accounts into the same Microsoft Advertising, treat each Ad Words account as a separate import.&#160;It is recommended that you wait at least a 2-hour time difference between each import to insure their completion.</span><span style="color&#58;#333333;background-color&#58;initial;">​</span></li></ol><p></p><p><span style="color&#58;#333333;"></span></p><p><span style="color&#58;#333333;"></span></p></div>Most items from Google Ads import seamlessly into Microsoft Advertising. However, there are items that we recommend you review after your import to make sure your campaigns are set up the way you want.<div><ul><ul><ul><ul><li>Bids and budgets<br></li><li>Targeting options</li><li>Negative keywords<br></li></ul></ul></ul></ul><p></p></div>


