---
type: rule
archivedreason: 
title: Data - Do you avoid deleting records by flagging them as IsDeleted (aka Soft Delete)?
guid: 56fff82d-9ed7-4aee-ab22-68e4c61fe162
uri: data---do-you-avoid-deleting-records-by-flagging-them-as-isdeleted-aka-soft-delete
created: 2019-11-25T19:14:13.0000000Z
authors:
- id: 1
  title: Adam Cogan
related: []

---


<p class="ssw15-rteElement-P">​​When users are deleting a lot of records as part of normal operations - they can and do make mistakes. Instead of the painful process of having to go to a backup to get these records, why not simply flag the records as Inactive?​​<br><br></p>
<br><excerpt class='endintro'></excerpt><br>
<dd class="ssw15-rteElement-FigureGood">Advant​ages<br></dd><ul><li>You do not have to delete all related records e.g. Customers, Orders, Order Details. Instead, you can just flag the parent record as deleted with an &quot;IsDeleted&quot; bit field.</li><li>You do not lose historical data e.g. how many products one of your previous clients purchased</li><li>You can actually see who deleted the record, as your standard audit columns (e.g. DateUpdated, UserUpdated are still there. The record does not just vanish</li><li>It is simple to implement - particularly when using a code generator. For example - our code generator produces views and stored procedures, and all data access layer code. With all data access done through the data layer views, we simply had to add a filter to all views (&quot;WHERE IsActive = 0&quot;). Our autogenerated delete stored procedures simply set the &quot;IsActive&quot; column to false.</li></ul><dd class="ssw15-rteElement-FigureBad">Disa​dvantages<br></dd><ul><li>Depending on your interface design, you may have to join to parent tables to ensure that deleted child records do not appear. Typically, the interface would be designed in such a way that you would not need be able to created new records based on the deleted items (e.g. you cannot create a new order record for a customer that is deleted). Performance of queries can potentially suffer if you have to do these joins.</li><li>While storage space is very cheap, you are not removing records from your database. You may need to archive records if the number of deleted records becomes large.<br></li></ul><p>Also see&#160;<a href="/_layouts/15/FIXUPREDIRECT.ASPX?WebId=3dfc0e07-e23a-4cbb-aac2-e778b71166a2&amp;TermSetId=07da3ddf-0924-4cd2-a6d4-a4809ae20160&amp;TermId=ef105dbd-7c49-4c2b-8e96-b78ac507d5e6">Using A​udit To​ols</a>&#160;for alternatives to this approach using 3rd party auditing tools.​<br></p>


