---
type: rule
archivedreason: 
title: Data - Do you avoid deleting records by flagging them as IsDeleted (aka Soft Delete)?
guid: 56fff82d-9ed7-4aee-ab22-68e4c61fe162
uri: avoid-deleting-records-by-flagging-them-as-isdeleted
created: 2019-11-25T19:14:13.0000000Z
authors:
- title: Adam Cogan
  url: /people/adam-cogan
related: []
redirects:
- data-do-you-avoid-deleting-records-by-flagging-them-as-isdeleted-aka-soft-delete
- data-do-you-avoid-deleting-records-by-flagging-them-as-isdeleted-(aka-soft-delete)

---

When users are deleting a lot of records as part of normal operations - they can and do make mistakes. Instead of the painful process of having to go to a backup to get these records, why not simply flag the records as IsDeleted?

<!--endintro-->


::: good
Advantages

:::

* You do not have to delete all related records e.g. Customers, Orders, Order Details. Instead, you can just flag the parent record as deleted with an "IsDeleted" bit field.
* You do not lose historical data e.g. how many products one of your previous clients purchased.
* You can actually see who deleted the record, as your standard audit columns (e.g. DateUpdated, UserUpdated are still there. The record does not just vanish.
* It is simple to implement - particularly when using a code generator. For example - our code generator produces views and stored procedures, and all data access layer code. With all data access done through the data layer views, we simply had to add a filter to all views ("WHERE IsDeleted = 0"). Our autogenerated delete stored procedures simply set the "IsDeleted" column to false.



::: bad
Disadvantages

:::

* Depending on your interface design, you may have to join to parent tables to ensure that deleted child records do not appear. Typically, the interface would be designed in such a way that you would not need be able to created new records based on the deleted items (e.g. you cannot create a new order record for a customer that is deleted). Performance of queries can potentially suffer if you have to do these joins.
* While storage space is very cheap, you are not removing records from your database. You may need to archive records if the number of deleted records becomes large.


Also see [Using Audit Tools](/use-temporal-tables-to-audit-data-changes) for alternatives to this approach using 3rd party auditing tools.


::: greybox

Watch William Liebenberg's SpendOps talk for more details about why soft deletes are advantageous in Azure:

* SSW TV video: 
         [Real-life SpendOps with Azure Cosmos DB](https&#58;//www.youtube.com/watch?v=qfPQR8XlwFo)
* NDC video: 
         [Azure SpendOps – The Art of Effectively Managing Azure Costs](https&#58;//www.youtube.com/watch?v=zxSlKiWOOzw)


:::
