---
type: rule
title: Comments - Do you follow the general commenting rules?
uri: comments---do-you-follow-the-general-commenting-rules
created: 2018-04-23T23:28:08.0000000Z
authors:
- id: 1
  title: Adam Cogan

---



<span class='intro'> <div>There is almost always a better alternative to adding comments to your code.<br></div><div>What are the downsides of comments? What are the alternatives? What are bad and good&#160;types of comments?&#160;<br></div><div><br></div><div><br></div> </span>

<p><strong class="ssw15-rteStyle-Caption">There is almost always a better alternative to adding comments to your code.</strong><br>(Chapter 4&#58; Comments,&#160;<a href="https&#58;//www.amazon.com.au/Clean-Code-Handbook-Software-Craftsmanship-ebook/dp/B001GSTOAM">Clean Code</a>&#160;is a treatise par excellence on the topic.)<br><br></p><p><strong>What are the downsides of comments?</strong><br></p><p><ol><li>Comments don't participate in refactoring and therefore get out of date surprisingly quickly.<br></li><li>Comments are dismissed by the compiler (except in weird languages like java) and therefore don't participate in the design.<br></li><li>Unless strategically added, they place a burden on the reader of the code (they now have to understand 2 things&#58; the code and your comments).<br></li></ol></p><p><strong>What are the alternatives to comments?</strong><br><ol><li>Change name of the element (class, function, para<span style="color&#58;#444444;">meter, variable, test etc.) to a longer more apt name to further document it.</span><br></li><li>For ‘cryptic’ code (perhaps to optimize it), rewrite it in simpler terms (leave optimization to the runtimes).<br></li><li>Add targeted unit tests to document a piece of code.<br></li><li>Innovative techniques that are well known solutions to common&#160;code smells&#160;e.g.&#58;<br></li><ol><li>For large methods/classes, break them and have longer names for them.</li><li>For a method with large number of parameters, wrap them all up in a Parameter Object.</li><li>&lt;pair up with someone else, think… be creative.&gt;</li></ol></ol><strong>What some *bad* types of comments?</strong><br><ol><li>That ex<span style="color&#58;#444444;">plain the &quot;what&quot;/&quot;how&quot; of the code. Basically the code rewritten </span><span style="color&#58;#444444;">in your mother tongue.</span><br></li><li>Documentation comments in non-public surface area.<br></li><li>Commenting out the code itself (perhaps to work on it later? That’s what source control is for).<br></li><li>TODO comments (Little ones are OK, don't leave them there for too long. The big effort TODOs - say that are over an hour or two - should have a work item URL to it).<br></li><li>And&#160;many more…<br></li></ol><strong>What some *good* types of comments?</strong><br>Very few of these really. Although even these are subject to all the downsides of comments.<br>Note that a lot of punch can be delivered in 140 characters! Twitter previously?<br><ol><li>Comments that explain the why (e.g. strategic insights).<br></li><li>… that hyperlink to an external source where you got the idea/piece of code.<br></li><li>… that hyperlink to a Bug/PBI for adding some context.<br></li><li>… that are documentation comments for your next-biggest-thing-on-Nuget library.<br></li><li>… that are real apologies (perhaps you had to add some gut-wrenching nasty code just to meeting time constraints, must be accompanied by a link to Bug/PBI).<br></li></ol><p><br></p>Last but not the least, <a href="http&#58;//butunclebob.com/ArticleS.TimOttinger.ApologizeIncode">some parting words</a> from&#160;<a href="https&#58;//twitter.com/unclebobmartin">@UncleBob</a>&#160;himself&#58;<br><em>&quot;A comment is an apology for not choosing a more clear name, or a more reasonable set of parameters, or for the failure to use explanatory variables and explanatory functions. Apologies for making the code unmaintainable, apologies for not using well-known algorithms, apologies for writing 'clever' code, apologies for not having a good version control system, apologies for not having finished the job of writing the code, or for leaving vulnerabilities or flaws in the code, apologies for hand-optimizing C code in ugly ways.&quot;</em><br>- Uncle Bob (Robert Martin of 'Clean Code' fame)<br></p><p>​<br></p>


